[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to
House of Wellbeing.
You're listening to the
"Releasing Stress" mind talk
audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it
does, I'd just like
to remind you that the
following audio contains
powerful hypnotic suggestions
aimed to help you reach
a deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now, there's
nothing at all you need to do,
apart from close your
eyes, relax, and let go.
And really enjoy the peaceful
feelings and benefits
that come with it.
In this deep and special
sleep, your subconscious mind,
for your safekeeping,
monitors everything
that's happening around you.
So these suggestions, because
they're for your benefit,
go directly to your subconscious
mind, where they're accepted.
And these thoughts become
established, firmly fixed,
deeply in your
inner mind, embedded
so these suggestions remain
with you long after you
open your eyes, helping you to
change those things you want
to change for your own sake.
And these new thoughts
help you begin to change
the things you want to change.
And these changes allow you to
enjoy your life more and more.
And I want you now to
imagine that you're
checking your body to ensure
you've become totally relaxed.
As your muscles relax, just
let your mind relax also.
Beginning with your
feet, feel your toes.
Stretch them and feel
the texture of what
your feet are resting on.
And now, begin to
tighten your calves
and allow them to relax now.
Allow that relaxation to
spread past your ankles,
up your calves to the
back of your knees.
And feel those muscles
easing, resting comfortably.
Now, the large muscles
of your thighs.
Pull them tight.
Be aware of those
large muscles tensing.
And now, relax those muscles.
Feel them lengthen.
And resting comfortably,
feel your legs
as they sink even deeper
as you relax even more.
And notice how rhythmic
your breathing is becoming.
Now, your stomach muscles.
Pull them together gently.
And now, let them expand
and relax comfortably.
Your shoulders and back
muscles, flex your shoulders.
Feel those muscles
pull across your back.
And now, let your
shoulders slouch
as you relax the muscles.
And notice how your spine
sinks deeper into your chair
as you relax even more deeply.
And notice how easy and regular
your breathing has become.
Now, your fingertips
and fingers.
Clench them now.
Feel the tension.
And now, allow them to relax.
Allow the relaxation
to spread up your arms,
all the way up to your neck.
And make sure your
neck is comfortable,
with your head in
an easy position.
Tighten up your neck muscles.
Now, let those columns
of muscles loosen.
As the muscles relax
and you allow your neck
to sink into the cushions
into a comfortable position,
your facial muscles are flat
and stretched comfortably
across your face.
Squeeze up your face.
Feel the tension.
And now, relax those
muscles and feel them
lengthening and softening,
relaxing more than ever before.
You can now feel the air
temperature against your skin,
and it feels smooth
and comfortable.
And now, you can
allow the relaxation
to spread onto your scalp,
knowing that you're relaxed
throughout your body,
from the top of your head
to the tips of your toes.
Your body is now loose and
limp and heavy and relaxed.
Notice how your body
is sinking deeper
into relaxation
as your breathing
becomes more regular and easy.
And in a moment, I'll
count slowly from 1 to 10.
And with each number, you
drift deeper and deeper
into peaceful relaxation.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, and 10.
Now feeling deeply relaxed.
And you find it easy to
focus your attention.
And you imagine
things very clearly.
I want you to
imagine that you're
standing on a balcony which
has steps leading down
to a beautiful garden.
And as you look
into that garden,
you see it's surrounded
with lovely trees,
ensuring the garden is private,
secluded, and peaceful.
There are flowerbeds
set in the lovely lawn.
And further along
is a waterfall,
flowing into a stream.
You listen to the
sound of the water.
As you look around
you, you see the trees.
And you hear a faint sound
of a bird in the distance,
adding to the feeling
of deep relaxation
through your entire being.
If you look more
closely, you'll see
that there are five steps
leading down to the garden,
and then a small path that
leads to the waterfall.
And in a moment, we'll
walk down the steps.
And with each step, you
go deeper and deeper
into relaxation.
So let's begin.
As you put your foot
on the first step,
you feel yourself going
deeper into relaxation.
Down onto the
second step, as you
feel your foot firmly
placed onto the step,
you feel a wonderful relief
as you drift even deeper
into relaxation now.
Down onto the third step,
feeling wonderfully free
and so, so relaxed.
As your foot reaches
for the fourth step,
another wave of relaxation
drifts through your whole body.
Down onto the fifth step
now, feeling even more deeply
relaxed than ever before.
And now, as you find yourself
standing on the lawn,
you see a little way
ahead a waterfall.
And you listen to the water
as it gently splashes.
You can notice the birds singing
in the distance and the sound
of the trees gently swaying.
And a little to the side is
a comfortable garden bench.
You notice the
color of the bench.
And in a moment, I'd like
you to walk over to the bench
and sit down on the bench.
And now, you sit down,
and you're surprised
at just how comfortable it is.
And then you're
even more relaxed.
As you sit down on the bench,
you take a deep breath.
And as you breathe out, you
feel a wave of relaxation
go through your
whole body, relaxing
every muscle, every nerve.
As you breathe in, you
breathe in positive thoughts.
And as you breathe out, you
breathe out negative thoughts,
leaving room for more positive
thoughts on this journey ahead.
And you know that
if you're stressed,
whether by your job or
something more personal,
the first step to feeling
better is to identify the cause
and to take control of the
situation, as doing nothing
will only make your
problems worse.
So today, we're going to take
control back into your life
by making some
changes immediately
that will help you manage
and overcome your stress.
You start by
becoming more in tune
with what situations seem to
cause you the most stress.
You take notice of your
feelings, your environment,
including the people and
circumstances involved
and how you reacted.
As you start to take
note and find patterns
amongst your
stresses, this helps
you put in place
responses and reactions
to help you cope better.
So instead of trying to
fight stress with fast food
or alcohol or
smoking, for example,
you start to make more
healthy choices when
you feel any tensions rise.
You avoid substances that
feel like they give you
that short-term fix.
When in fact, you
know in the long term,
they'll only enhance and
build on your stress levels.
You exercise more
regularly, realizing
this is a great
stress buster for you.
And perhaps sometimes,
you may decide
to use techniques such as
meditation, deep breathing
exercises, mindfulness,
and listening
to mind talks helping you
to melt away the stress.
Whatever you choose to do, you
find that the physical activity
is beneficial to keeping you
feeling calm and in control.
And you do it more often,
to reap the rewards.
You identify any wellness
initiatives at work
that you can tap into, helping
you to continuously put
yourself first.
And the physical exercise will
lead to better quality sleep,
building healthy sleep habits
by limiting your caffeine
intake late in the day
and minimizing stimulating
activities, such as computer
or phone or television use
late at night.
To avoid the negative
effects of stress or burnout,
you start to learn to
switch off from work
by having periods of
time when you're neither
engaging in
work-related activities
nor thinking about work.
You learn to disconnect
from time to time,
in a way that fits your
needs and preferences.
You establish work-life
boundaries for yourself,
and you create a rule
not to check emails
from home after a certain
time in the evening,
and not checking nor answering
your phone if you're out
with friends and family.
Your work-life balance
is important to you
and it gives your mind
the break and space
it needs to recharge and take
time out from a busy day.
You use your holidays, taking
time off to relax and unwind.
And you come back
feeling reinvigorated
and ready to perform
at your best.
When you feel your workload
starting to get too much,
you have an honest
and open conversation
with your line manager.
Not to play out a list of
complaints, but rather for you
to come up with an
effective plan for managing
the stresses you've identified
so that you can perform
at your best in
your job, ultimately
benefiting not only yourself,
but the business, too.
And as you start to make these
small changes and take control,
you start to feel empowered,
finding solutions for yourself,
knowing that you can
control any situation calmly
and effectively.
And this satisfies you,
giving you confidence.
And this confidence gets
stronger and stronger day
by day.
You know that you have a
network of colleagues, friends,
and family that you
can rely on, that you
can talk to, that can
help you to see things
in a different way
to help you relax,
find solutions to any problems
or stresses you may have.
You also start to
help others more, too,
realizing that helping people
who are in a situation worse
than your own helps you to put
your problems into perspective.
You feel stronger and more
resilient, more positive,
more capable, much
more in control
and more confident
than ever before.
And this, in turn, helps you
to prioritize your workload,
concentrating only on
the tasks that need
your attention immediately.
You're not distracted
by things that
can be resolved another
day, helping you
to work smarter, not harder.
And to concentrate on
things that you can control,
not things that are
out of your control.
From now on, you're beginning
to not only believe in yourself,
but to know who you truly
are, as someone worthwhile,
someone deserving to be here.
Your powerful and
dynamic subconscious mind
now creating clever pathways,
methods, and strategies
to break down the barriers that
have stressed you in the past,
and to move you forward,
feeling whole and complete.
Feeling calm,
balanced, and restored.
In control, relaxed,
and stress-free.
These hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind,
and they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count from 1 up to 5
to awaken you.
At the count of 5, you'll be
wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.